# Class X: Forensics and Steganography

## Overview
In this lesson, we will introduce some topics in forensics. We will look specifically at steganography, how it works, some useful tools, and we'll solve some related CTF challenges.

## Forensics
In CTF, forensics challenges cover the following areas:
* Steganography
* File format analysis
* Memory dump analysis
* Network packet capture analysis
* Other forms of examining and extracting information from static data files

## Least-Significant Bit
The way colors are shown in an image is through a binary value between 0 (00000000) and 255 (11111111). The difference - to the eye - between 8 1's and 7 1's and a 0 is not much, you won't be able to notice it. The last bit in that binary number is known as the Least Significant Bit, and is the main component in forms of Steganography.

### Steganography
Steganography is the practice of hiding information within other non-secret data, usually images. The first recorded use of Steganography was in the ancient egyptians shaving a slaves head and tattooing an image on it until the hair grew back and then they sent him to wherever they wanted the message to go.

Nowadays, we have better ways to get secret messages to people. Image Steganography using the LSB method is the most common, and there are a few tools that can help with decoding / decrypting steg like this. Most of them do the same thing, so find one that you like and figure out how to use that one. I'm going to introduce my favorite.

### [StegOnline](https://georgeom.net/StegOnline/upload)
Steg Online is one of the fastest and easiest tools around for image steg. My favorite is the LSB half button. More on this later.

## Example 1
[Download this file](https://github.com/zelinsky/CTF-Course/blob/master/Forensics/Steganography/stego.png) and proceed to [this link](https://georgeom.net/StegOnline/upload) to try to find the hidden image inside this image!

## Example 2 
[Download this file]() and throw it in your [StegOnline]() tool. This time I used Single LSB steg. Find the message and submit it under the !!challenge!! 
