# Class 16: Diffie-Hellman and Chinese Remainder Theorem

## Overview
In this lesson we will go over the Diffie-Hellman key exchange algorithm. We will also take a look at a network capture of a Diffie-Hellman key exchange.


## Diffie-Hellman
Looking back at block ciphers, such as DES and AES, they use a shared secret key. Block ciphers use the same key to encrypt and decrypt, so If I have an encrypted message that I want you to decrypt, how do I share the secret key with you?

That's where Diffie-Hellman comes in! Diffie-Hellman allows two people to generate a shared secret together across s public channel, so that anyone listenting to the messages being sent across the channel will not be able to determine the secret.

The reason this works? The **Discrete Log** problem, similarly to RSA. Given the values of <b>A</b>, <b>g</b>, and <b>p</b>, with <i>A = g<sup>a</sup> mod p</i>, calculating the value of <b>a</b> is a hard problem.

### The Algorithm
#### Alice
***
* Alice, the initiator, generates a strong prime <b>p</b>
* Alice also generates a base <b>g</b>, which is usually just the number 2
* Alice generates a **private** random number <b>a</b> which shares no factors with <b>p</b>
* Alice calculates a **public** <b>A</b> with <i>A = g<sup>a</sup> mod p</i>
* Alice sends <b>(p, g, A)</b> to Bob, <b>a</b> is kept **private**

#### Bob 
***
* Bob receives <b>(p, g, A)</b> from Alice
* Bob generates a **private** random number <b>b</b> which shares no factors with <b>p</b>
* Bob calculates a **public** <b>B</b> with <i>B = g<sup>b</sup> mod p</i> and sends to Alice

#### Calculating the Secret
***
* With the <b>B</b> received from Bob, Alice computes the shared secret <b>s</b> with <i>s = B<sup>a</sup> mod p</i>
* With the <b>A</b> received from Alice, Bob computes the same shared secret <b>s</b> with <i>s = A<sup>b</sup> mod p</i>

<b>p</b>, <b>g</b>, <b>A</b>, and <b>B</b> are **public** values, and <b>a</b>, <b>b</b>, and <b>s</b> are **private** values.

Only Alice can compute <i>s = B<sup>a</sup> mod p</i> because only Alice knows <b>a</b>.

Only Bob can compute <i>s = A<sup>b</sup> mod p</i> because only Bob knows <b>b</b>.

Further, Alice is computing <i>s = (g<sup>b</sup>)<sup>a</sup> mod p</i> and Bob is computing <i>s = (g<sup>a</sup>)<sup>b</sup> mod p</i>.

<i>g<sup>ba</sup> = g<sup>ab</sup> mod p</i>


### Try It
>**Pick a partner. One of you will be Alice and the other will be Bob. Perform the Diffie-Hellman key exchange in the Slack channel as described above. Verify that you generated the same secret.**

Here's some Python code to get you started:
```python
from Crypto.Util.number import *

g = 2
p = getStrongPrime(512)
while True:
    a = getRandomRange(2, p-2)
    if GCD(a, p-1) == 1:
	break

A = pow(g, a, p)
```

### Challenge
Solve [this CTF challenge](https://crypto.prof.ninja/class15/flag.php)!

### Forensics Challenge: Cheater
>**Solve the Cheater challenge.**


## Chinese Remainder Theorem
Let's play a game. A random number is picked and you can only learn the remainder of that number modulo single digit moduli. Your goal is to find the number in the fewest number of guesses.
>**Play the game [here](https://codepen.io/AndyNovo/pen/pERozj)!**

There is a perfect mapping from <i>Z<sub>N</sub>↔Z<sub>q1</sub>×⋯Z<sub>qk</sub></i> whenever the pairwise GCD of <i>q<sub>i</sub></i> is 1 and <i>N=q<sub>1</sub>⋯q<sub>k</sub></i>.

Example:

Given that _x≡2 mod 5_, _x≡1 mod 3_ then x must be equivalent to _7 mod 15_.

>**You can code your own [Chinese Remainder Theorem algorithm in Python](https://rosettacode.org/wiki/Chinese_remainder_theorem#Python) or head to [CoCalc](https://cloud.sagemath.com/) (Python with cool and powerful math stuff) and use the built-in _crt_ function. Now compute the smallest positive number which is _3 mod 9_, _8 mod 13_, _6 mod 25_, and _36 mod 121_**

### Crypto Challenges
* CRT
* Broadcast


## Pohlig-Hellman
I want to introduce a feasible attack on the discrete log problem. That is, given <i>A = α<sup>x</sup> mod p</i>, _p_, _α_ find _x_.

This attack will teach us about what makes a prime strong enough, cyclic groups, and the Chinese Remainder Theorem.

>**Solve this discrete log problem: Given _p = 125301575591_, _g = 115813337451_ , _h = g^x mod p = 73973989900_, solve for _x_.**

### Example
The big idea is this, the multiplicative subgroup of integers mod p has size p−1. If we know the factors of p−1 (and they are all small) then we can convert this into a smaller problem.

Imagine that _q | p−1_ then <i>(g<sup>(p−1)/q</sup>)<sup>x</sup> = h<sup>(p−1)/q</sup></i> is another equation involving x but now the possible answers for x aren't mod p−1 but are mod q.

Given _p = 31_, _g = 3_, <i>h = 26=  g<sup>x</sup></i> find _x_.

We could try every value of x from 1 to 30 until we got _26 mod 31_. In this case that would be cheap and not a problem, BUT it won't scale to the larger problem.

So we start by factoring _p−1 = 30 = 2⋅3⋅5_. We will convert the discrete log problem into a three smaller problems that we can Chinese Remainder to find the final solution.

Start with _q = 2_ which divides _p−1_. Since we are looking for _x_ which satisfies the relationship that _3x ≡ 26 (mod 31)_ then if we replace 3 and 26 by 3<sup>15</sup> and 26<sup>15</sup> then we'll get another relationship <i>3<sup>15x</sup>≡26<sup>15</sup> (mod 31)</i>.

If we look at this a little deeper we know that <i>3<sup>30</sup> ≡ 1 (mod 31)</i> based on what we know about cyclic groups. So this new relationship actually only gives us an answer mod 2. Here's what I mean. Suppose _x_ were odd, then <sup>15x</sup> is exactly equivalent to 3<sup>15</sup> and if x is even then 3<sup>15x</sup> is always equivalent to 1. So either 3<sup>15x</sup> is equivalent to 3<sup>15</sup> or it is equivalent to 1. That means that we have learned a solution to the equation _x ≡ r(mod 2)_.

In this case we just check <i>26<sup>15</sup> (mod 31)</i> and we get 30 which matches <i>3<sup>15</sup> (mod 31)</i>.

So we know that _x ≡ 1(mod 2)_.

Now let's try _q = 5_. We raise both 3 and 26 to the _(p−1)/5-th_ power. We get <i>3<sup>6x</sup> ≡ 26<sup>6</sup> ≡ 1 (mod 31)</i>. Now try every remainder of _x (mod 5)_ until we find the right power.

_30 ≡ 1_, _36 ≡ 16_, _312 ≡ 8_, _318 ≡ 4_, _324 ≡ 2 (mod 31)_, so we now know that _x ≡ 0 (mod 5)_ and that _x ≡ 1 (mod 2)_ which tells us that _x ≡ 5 (mod 10)_.

