# Class 8: C and Assembly

## Overview
In this lesson, we will look at some code written in c and assembly. We will also write our own basic C programs, compile them, and then disassemble them in order to look at the assembly code and compare it to the original c code.

## Introduction to C
C is a statically typed language, meaning variable types are known at compile time. C leaves a lot open to the interpretation of the programmer, allowing unspecified and undefined behaviors of the program, making it prime for exploitation. However, C is very fast and has been used to solve Crypto challenges in 3 minutes in what would take 30 minutes in python. 

Here's a first program in C that utilizes loops, branching, function definitions, etc so you can familiarize yourself with the language. 
```C 

``` 

To compile this program from the command-line type: 
```shell
gcc -o hello_c hello_c.c
```
To run the program type: 
```shell 
./hello_c arg1 arg2 arg3 
```

Now try running the file command on the executable: 
```shell
file hello_c
```
The output should look similar to this: 
```shell 

``` 
Most computers nowadays are 64-bit, and your executable is most likely a 64-bit executable, but to get started with x86 assembly we will want to have 32-bit programs. In order to do this we have to install the multilib package. 
```shell 
sudo apt-get install multilib 
```

The code can now be compiled into a 32-bit executable with the -m32 flag: 
```shell 
gcc -m32 -o hello_c hello_c.c
```
Running the file command ... 
```shell
file hello_c
``` 
... should now have output similar to this. 
```shell 

```

## Arrays, Malloc and Free, Pointers and Pointer Arithmetic
Arrays in C can be allocated on the stack or on the heap. When arrays are allocated on the stack, the memory remains allocated until the end of the scope of the function or until the program terminates. When arrays are allocated on the heap, the programmer decides when to deallocate the memory, or if they forget it's deallocated at the end of the program. Forgetting to deallocate memory causes poor performance because the memory cannot be used until it is freed up. 

Allocating space for an array on the stack looks like: 
```C
int arr[10]; 
```
When allocating memory on the heap, the programmer must specify the number of bytes needed in the malloc call, and malloc returns a contiguous chunk of memory that is the requested size. To find the size, in bytes, of a C-type, use the sizeof() function. Here's an example of allocating space for an array of size 10 of int on the heap. 
```C 

``` 
#### Pointers
Pointers in C are the address of a memory location. A call to malloc returns a pointer to the sizeof data requested on the heap. 

Pointers can be declared with in C with: 
```C 
int* p; 
``` 
p now has type pointer-to-int. 
We can assign p a memory address by doing: 
```C 
p = (int *)malloc(sizeof(int)); //don't forget to free!
```
or 
```C 
int x = 7; 
p = &x; 
``` 
The & operator means the address of the variable. So if a variable t has type T, then &t has type pointer-to-T. 

One can find the value stored at a pointer by using the * operator, which dereferences the pointer. 
```C
int y = *p; //y is assigned to the integer stored at pointer p
```
#### Pointer Arithmetic
Suppose we have an array arr1. We can access the element at index 1 of arr1 with arr1[1], but we can also use pointer arithmetic. An array of ints just stores a pointer to int. We can add values to this pointer and dereference the pointer to get more values of the array. 

For example
```C
int arr1[8]; 
for (int i = 0; i < 8; i++){
	arr1[i] = i; 
} 
printf("%d\n", arr1[4]); 
printf("%d\n", *(arr1 + 4)); 
```
Adding n to a pointer-to-T, where T is a type, increments the pointer by n times sizeof(T). 
## Function Pointers 
Functions also have their own addresses in memory, and we can pass these pointers around (as variables and arguments to functions). Let's see how we can use these function pointers to build our own version of python's map function in C for arrays of int. 

```C 

```
## x86 Syntax and Registers 
Registers are basic storage units inside the CPU. 
In x86 Assembly, instructions involve opcodes (function to be performed), registers, and constants (integer values). 
Instructions generally take the form: 
> OPCODE [DESTINATION REGISTER / CONSTANT], [SOURCE REGISTER / CONSTANT] 

Moving Data: 
> <b>mov eax, 1</b> Assigns the eax register with the value 1
> 
> <b>add eax, 1</b>

Arithmetic: 
> 
> 

Conditional Jumping: 
> 
> 

<b>BYTEs, WORDs, and DWORDs</b> 
bytes - 8 bits 
word - a word is 16 bits (or 2 bytes)
dword - double word is 32 bits ( or 4 bytes) 

    
## Radare2 
To open a 
## EBP, ESP, and Stack Frames
EBP - the Base Pointer   
## x86 Calling Conventions 

## Reversing our First Crackme's

